---
title: IETF ISOC Board of Trustee Appointment Procedures
abbrev: isocbot
docname: draft-hildebrand-rfc3677bis
date: 2016-02-03
category: std

ipr: trust200902
area: iab
keyword: Internet-Draft

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
 -
    ins: J. Hildebrand
    name: Joe Hildebrand
    organization: Cisco Systems
    email: jhildebr@cisco.com

normative:
  RFC3677:

informative:
  BCP10:

--- abstract

This memo outlines the process by which the IETF makes a selection of
an Internet Society (ISOC) Board of Trustees appointment.

--- middle

Introduction        {#introduction}
============

The Internet Society (ISOC) provides organizational and financial
support for the IETF.  As stipulated in ISOC's by-laws the IETF is
called upon to name 3 Trustees to its Board (BoT), with staggered 3
year terms.  This requires that the IETF name one Trustee each year.

This memo outlines the process by which the IETF makes that
selection.  This process will also be used in the event of mid-term
vacancies that may arise with IETF nominated Board positions.

Overview of Selection Process   {#overview}
-----------------------------

In brief, this document describes the timeframe and procedures for
the IAB to solicit public input and make a selection for the open
position each year.

Rationale   {#rationale}
---------

An alternative approach to making a selection for these positions
would be to use the IETF's NomCom ({{BCP10}} and its revisions).
However, that NomCom is chartered and defined specifically to the
task of making selections for IETF organization tasks, and the ISOC
BoT appointment process does not fit that in 2 ways:

1.  the timeframe of the appointment does not mesh with the IETF
    appointment cycle

2.  the nature of the deliberations and the type of information
    solicited would be significantly different for an external
    appointment, such as this appointment to the ISOC BoT

The first issue (timing) could be resolved fairly easily for this
specific appointment.  The second issue is more general, and not
reasonably reconciled with the IETF NomCom task as currently
specified.

The process described in {{BCP10}} is oriented toward soliciting
feedback from the IETF community with respect to individuals and
technical positions with which they have personal experience.  To
make a good decision on external appointments, in general, the NomCom
would have to understand the requirements for those positions, and
attempt to evaluate candidates for a very different set of skills
than is required of IAB/IESG members.  It might also require
soliciting feedback from outside the IETF community.   There is no
question that the individuals that constitute the IETF NomCom each
year have the competence to carry out such a search; the issue is
that it is a very different task, would require additional time and
resources, and therefore is a side effort that could very well
undermine the effectiveness of the NomCom in carrying out its primary
task for the IETF.

By contrast, the IAB is chartered to be responsible for IETF external
liaisons, is a standing body that works with ISOC (and the ISOC
Board), and therefore has a working knowledge of the requirements of
the specific position discussed here.

At some future point, if there is a more general need to make
external appointments, the IETF may consider broadening the scope of
the IETF NomCom role, or create a separate nominating committee for
such external non-liaison appointments.  This document proposes that
is not necessary or desirable for the purposes of this one annual
appointment.
